Hello and welcome to the complete
beginners guide to Adobe Photoshop
gareth here from garethdavidstudio.com this is a course created for beginners to
Adobe Photoshop, the topics that are
going to be covered in this course are
the basics, so whether you have the most
up-to-date version of Photoshop or
you're using an older version, you should
be able to follow along just fine. For
this course I'll be using Adobe
Photoshop CC 2014, in this series we will
be starting from the very beginning and
working our way across 33 episodes to
learn all the basics and create a
project from scratch. Now this may seem
like a lot of episodes but trust me
after this creative adventure you will
be able to use Adobe Photoshop like a
pro. After watching this series you will
be able to create your very own artwork
in Photoshop ready for print and digital
use. So what are we going to create on
this course for this course? We are going
to carry out a design project. We are
going to explore a design scenario where
we will need to produce book cover
artwork for a children's book. We are
going to work to a fictional brief and
create this book cover design. So why a
book cover design? Well this creative
exercise is going to include all the
basic tasks a designer will need to know
as a beginner. To create this project we
will be working with all the common
creative tools, we will be working with
typography, we will be using Photoshop
effects and we will be managing a
complex workflow. We will not only be
learning how to create the artwork but
how to manage the project in a smart way.
So let's take a look at the finished
document. So here we are in Adobe
Photoshop and here you are looking at
the finished book cover design we are
going to build up to. So this composition
includes a lot of design and
illustrative elements, but if we look
over in the layers panel it's all
contained in five neat layer folders.
Along the way we will be focusing on
each of these design elements
individually. The header graphic, the logo and the
paper birds. Finally we will bring them
all together to finish the complete
composition. Once we have finished the
book design we will then export the
artwork to the correct format for a
printer to print the design to
specification. So to help break down the
process
I have structured the course in three
main sections: Introduction, Essential
practice and create a project. In the
introduction section I will be
introducing you to Photoshop and
bringing you up to speed with some of
the things you need to be aware of
before we continue onto the essential
practice section. In the essential
practice section we are going to look
closely at some of the creative tools
and principles in Photoshop. Here you
will have the opportunity to get
hands-on with the various Photoshop
exercise documents I have designed and
prepared for you to practice with. When
we get to the create a project section
we will be using all that we have
learned in the essential practice
section to create a project from scratch.
If you wish to follow along with this
course you can download the entire
project folder for free, the link is in
the description, this folder contains all
the work documents, fonts and project
files necessary to follow along, if you
wish to skip ahead or back at any point
in the course you can find every episode
link in the descriptions of each video.
Now I also suggest you download the PDF
worksheet, you can save this to your
computer and come back at any point, this
is an interactive PDF which has been
designed to enhance this course
experience, this contains all the
relevant video and project download
links. So I recommend you download this
PDF, you can also find the link in the
description this PDF has also been
designed to make it easy for you to
share with fellow students and friends
who also wish to learn Photoshop, simply
send this PDF around and others will be
able to enjoy this course. So that's the
overview of this Photoshop beginners
course. Once you have downloaded the
project PDF and the project folder let's
get into it! and we are going to begin
with the first video in the course:
Interface introduction
to Adobe Photoshop.
See you in the next video!
