Hello and welcome to the complete
beginners guide to Adobe Photoshopgareth here from garethdavidstudio.com this is a course created for beginners toAdobe Photoshop, the topics that are
going to be covered in this course arethe basics, so whether you have the most
up-to-date version of Photoshop oryou're using an older version, you should
be able to follow along just fine. Forthis course I'll be using Adobe
Photoshop CC 2014, in this series we willbe starting from the very beginning and
working our way across 33 episodes tolearn all the basics and create a
project from scratch. Now this may seemlike a lot of episodes but trust me
after this creative adventure you willbe able to use Adobe Photoshop like a
pro. After watching this series you willbe able to create your very own artwork
in Photoshop ready for print and digitaluse. So what are we going to create on
this course for this course? We are goingto carry out a design project. We are
going to explore a design scenario wherewe will need to produce book cover
artwork for a children's book. We aregoing to work to a fictional brief and
create this book cover design. So why abook cover design? Well this creative
exercise is going to include all thebasic tasks a designer will need to know
as a beginner. To create this project wewill be working with all the common
creative tools, we will be working withtypography, we will be using Photoshop
effects and we will be managing acomplex workflow. We will not only be
learning how to create the artwork buthow to manage the project in a smart way.
So let's take a look at the finisheddocument. So here we are in Adobe
Photoshop and here you are looking atthe finished book cover design we are
going to build up to. So this compositionincludes a lot of design and
illustrative elements, but if we lookover in the layers panel it's all
contained in five neat layer folders.Along the way we will be focusing on
each of these design elementsindividually. The header graphic, the logo and thepaper birds. Finally we will bring them
all together to finish the completecomposition. Once we have finished the
book design we will then export theartwork to the correct format for a
printer to print the design tospecification. So to help break down the
processI have structured the course in three
main sections: Introduction, Essentialpractice and create a project. In the
introduction section I will beintroducing you to Photoshop and
bringing you up to speed with some ofthe things you need to be aware of
before we continue onto the essentialpractice section. In the essential
practice section we are going to lookclosely at some of the creative tools
and principles in Photoshop. Here youwill have the opportunity to get
hands-on with the various Photoshopexercise documents I have designed and
prepared for you to practice with. Whenwe get to the create a project section
we will be using all that we havelearned in the essential practice
section to create a project from scratch.If you wish to follow along with this
course you can download the entireproject folder for free, the link is in
the description, this folder contains allthe work documents, fonts and project
files necessary to follow along, if youwish to skip ahead or back at any point
in the course you can find every episodelink in the descriptions of each video.
Now I also suggest you download the PDFworksheet, you can save this to your
computer and come back at any point, thisis an interactive PDF which has been
designed to enhance this courseexperience, this contains all the
relevant video and project downloadlinks. So I recommend you download this
PDF, you can also find the link in thedescription this PDF has also been
designed to make it easy for you toshare with fellow students and friends
who also wish to learn Photoshop, simplysend this PDF around and others will be
able to enjoy this course. So that's theoverview of this Photoshop beginners
course. Once you have downloaded theproject PDF and the project folder let's
get into it! and we are going to beginwith the first video in the course:
Interface introductionto Adobe Photoshop.See you in the next video!