It's no secret that the world of digital
marketing changes fast which is why inthis episode I'm going to be breaking
down 5 of the absolute most importantdigital marketing skills you need to
master if you want to stay on top ofyour game. Let's get to it!Hey there my name is Adam Erhart,
marketing strategist and welcome to TheMarketing Show. Alright, so it really is
no secret that the world of digitalmarketing changes at an absolutely crazy
fast pace and what works today may notwork tomorrow, what worked last week
might not be working today and and so onand so forth. This is why it's incredibly
important to make sure to stay on top ofyour game by consuming content like this,
engaging in other people's content,making sure that you're putting your own
strategies and your own tactics to thetest and sort of analyzing the data,
seeing what works and what doesn't sothat you can stay ahead of the curve,
always getting the best results possible.It's funny, actually, looking back over my
career and over the last many years ofdoing all kinds of different digital
marketing from web design and SEO, movingthrough paid ads and social and content
strategy and essentially, just howdifferent the stuff that we're using
today inside the agency is, compared tothe stuff that we were doing 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7 years ago. I mean it's almostcompletely different now. Attention spans
are shorter. There's new technology. Theway that customers and clients engage
with content online, it's almostcompletely different. So, the stuff that
kind of got you to this point, isn'tgoing to be the things that are going to
take you forward into the next decade.And that's what this video is all about.
Alright, so let's get things startedwith what I believe is probably one of
the most important skills that you needto master which is: Marketing
Fundamentals. Now, I've spoken about thisbefore in my what is digital marketing
video. If you haven't seen that yet, I'llmake sure to link it up in the cards as
well as the description below. Butessentially, digital marketing is just
marketing done digitally. I know, it's notreally profound but at the end of the
day that's really what it is. This is whyit's really important if you want to
succeed with digital marketing to makesure that you're dedicating and
allocating a sufficient amount of timeto really mastering the basics of
marketing, those fundamental principleslike positioning and differentiation and
all the points around branding and howto really build kind of a solid and
likable brand for today's day and age.I really can't stress this enough. It is
absolutely, fundamentally, crucial thatyou understand the basics of marketing
and fortunately, once you sort of gutthese into your system, once you've spent
some time learning them and reallytrying to master them, here's the beauty,
this time is going to be really wellspent because human behavior, which is
essentially really what marketing is, isunderstanding and leveraging different
aspects of human behavior, how you cansort of I want to say manipulate but
essentially, influence the direction andthe decisions people make, well,
regardless, human behavior really hasn'tchanged all that much. At the end of the
day, we're still just people. This means,by even understanding the basics of how
people work and how they make buyingdecisions, well, you're gonna be able to
apply this information this year, nextyear, for the next 5-10 probably the next
hundred years. For example, by spending alittle bit of time learning about
consumer behavior, marketing fundamentals,you'll probably come across the fact
that consumers make buying decisionsemotionally, not logically or irrationally,
this doesn't mean that you don't want toinclude logical or rational elements, it
just means that you want to lead withthe emotional aspect first so you can
sort of get that buy-in and get thatconviction and then follow up with the
logical and rational elements of yourproduct or service, so that you can allow
them to justify the decision tothemselves and to others. The beauty is
that once you understand that onevery simple concept, it's really never
going to change and it's going to beable to be applied to all of your future
marketing making it all that much moreeffective moving forward. If you'd like a
bit of a refresh on marketing basics andessentially, foundational marketing
principles, I'll make sure to link up avideo on that in the cards and in the
description box below as well that youcan check out right after this one. Alright, the next skill that you're goingto want to master, moving forward, is: to
Focus on Conversation Generation. Now, asa die-hard proponent of direct response
marketing which is really all aboutgenerating those leads and getting them
to take action as soon as possible, well,a big element or a big switch that we've
been seeing lately is sort of atransition from straight-up lead gen to
conversation gen because at the end ofthe day you can generate all the leads
you want but what you probably want arethose conversations that are going to
lead to bigger and more essentially,buying opportunities for your business.
Now yes, lead genis still very much alive and still very
much a part of the stuff that I consulton and the stuff that we do inside the
agency. But, if you really want to takeyour marketing to the next level and
really master it, you're gonna want tofocus on that next step which is
essentially, turning those leads intoconversations. Now, it's a bit of kind of
give-and-take here about what you'rewilling to sacrifice on the front end
and how valuable a lead is compared to aconversation and that's kind of a whole
other discussion but what I want to makesure you understand here, is that when
you're structuring your marketingcampaigns, you really want to think a
little bit further down the funnel andreally concentrate on not just
generating that lead but turning it intoa conversation. But, more on funnel
marketing in just a minute here. Now,here's a bit of a prediction. You see,
over the last couple years we've beenseeing a ton of people flood the scenes
with lead gen services and all sorts ofdifferent agencies and consultants
offering traffic generating leadgenerating services like running
Facebook ads or YouTube ads or basically,anything to get leads. But, where you've
got an opportunity to really shine,whether it's as an agency or as a
business owner or entrepreneur, is reallythinking further than that and again
focusing on those conversations becausegenerating traffic really isn't that
hard, it really just comes down tofinding the right people that you're
trying to get in front of having theright offer message that you can sort of
work around to make sure it'sirresistible and then choosing the right
media source, whether it's Facebook adsor Instagram ads or YouTube or whatever.
So, traffic is pretty much everywhere butwhat isn't everywhere is the skill or
the art or the ability to take thattraffic and actually convert it into a
conversation that gets somebodyinterested in doing business with you.
Alright, so the next skill that you'regoing to want to master moving forward
is something that I alluded to justearlier, which is: Full Funnel Marketing.
Essentially, what you want to do here isbe aware and be cognizant of the entire
customer journey, both, pre sale and ofcourse post sale. But, that's something
entirely different. Rather, what I reallywant you to do is, when you're running
your marketing campaigns, think aboutevery step that a customer prospect or
potential customer is going to have totake in order to, essentially, become a
paying client or customer with yourbusiness. Now, obviously this is going to
involve some element of lead gen whichis that very top of the funnel, that cold
traffic, the people that have no ideawho you are or what you do or why they
should even care. But, I want you to thentake it a step further and focus on the
warm traffic. You see, essentially onceyou've generated that lead, how are you
gonna take that lead and turn it into aconversation and then for bonus marks,
take it a step further, how are you gonnatake that conversation and move it from
warm traffic to hot traffic by actuallygetting them to take their credit card
out of their wallet and become a payingcustomer. Now, I know that's a lot of
stuff to think about and if you've neverreally come across marketing funnels or
sales funnels before, I appreciate it's alot to take in so I'll make sure to link
up a video on marketing funnels as wellas one on sales funnels again in the
cards and the description below soyou're gonna be able to check those out
right after this video too. The main pointthat I really want to leave you with
here, though, is that really marketingisn't siloed or isolated, it's not just
one element of either generating trafficor doing lead gen or even generating
conversations. But rather, I want you tothink about the entire marketing funnel
from that very first moment that someonegets introduced to you and to your
business, all the way through to thepoint that they become a paying customer
or client. And then again, if you wanteven more bonus marks, think about all
the touch points that are gonna happenafter they become an actual paying
client or customer, how can you reallymake sure you're delivering a phenomenal
experience that's going to lead tobetter retention, better customer loyalty
and more ratings and reviews andreferrals for your business. Alright, so
the next skill that you're gonna wannamaster, is probably no surprise and
should probably, hopefully, be prettyobvious but it's worth saying anyways
because still not enough people arededicating the time, energy and resources
to this phenomenally powerful tool andthat is: Video Marketing. You see, when it
comes to marketing your business andwhen it comes to really building on that
know like and trust factor, well, nothingreally beats face-to-face communication.
The ability to sit down, look someone inthe eye, have a conversation, understand
where they're coming from and how or ifyour business is even able to help. But,
obviously getting face to face withevery single one of your potential
prospects or customers, well, might behard, might even be impossible which is
where video steps in and it really isthe next best thing, because it allows
you to not only hear someone's voice butyou can see their face, you can read
their facial expressions, you can try tojudge, whether they're coming off as
take or genuine or fake and salesy kindof slimy. The other thing with video is
that it allows you to build a ton oftrust very quickly because again, short
of being in person and really able toread the body language and and hear the
inflections and the tone of voice andthe style and all that, well, it really is
the next best thing in getting all ofthose messages across. Plus, you're able
to cram in a ton of value and a ton ofinformation very quickly.
For example, if picture is worth athousand words, well, then a video might
be worth a million words because you'reable to imply all sorts of different
nonverbal cues and again, all of thosethings that come down to style and tone
and pace and so on. Now, here's the funnything with video, if you're not doing it
already, you probably know you should bedoing it and even if you're already
doing it, you probably know you should bedoing more. But, what is it that stops
most people from getting involved andreally cranking out more video. Well, the
answer is pretty simple and it reallycomes down to this myth or this mistaken
belief that everything with video needsto be perfect. Now, this is understandable.
After all, we've sort of been raised andbrought up watching really polished and
really perfected videos through TV showsand movies and basically, any kind of
media we see on the screen. But thingshave changed and essentially, the
barriers to entry to creating video, havecome way down and we're really kind of
tired and almost sick of overly polishedand Hollywood type productions,
especially if they're coming from abusiness or from somebody that you kind
of want to engage with. In fact, in a lotof cases we've done a number of
different studies testing a reallyhighly produced incredibly expensive
video against something shot with justan iPhone that really is pretty low
budget and when it comes to running themas ads against the target market, the
low-budget one often just absolutelydestroys the really expensive high
budget one. Now, this isn't to say thatthere's not a time and a place for a
really beautiful really polished pieceof video media. But it shouldn't be the
obstacle. You shouldn't let perfectionismget in the way of you just really
getting out there filming something andpublishing it. Plus, the other benefit of
video is that you can mess up a wholebunch of stuff and then just edit it out.
And nobody will ever know. Alright, andmoving on to the fifth digital marketing
skill that you need to master is:Automation. And after all, there is so
much to do and so little timeand this is where automation steps in as
a very valuable skill, both for yourselfand for your own business. But also,
potentially to offer to clients orcustomers to help them automate some of
their business. Essentially, automation isthe offloading or the delegation or
basically using tools and technology andsoftware to take care of a lot of the
repetitive tasks that you don't need tobe doing, probably shouldn't be doing, in
your business but that still need to getdone. What this means is that you're able
to get a whole lot more done, a whole lotquicker
and in fact, in some cases you're able toget a whole lot more done pretty much
instantly because the automation can beset up ahead of time to just run behind
the scenes and trust me, it's a lotfaster than any human being could ever
hope to be. For example, in one of mymarketing agencies, we can generate a
lead for a client using Facebook Ads, wecan take that lead we can nurture them
with SMS and text and email and voicemail and essentially, start the
conversation from our end and follow upwith a very strategic sort of automated,
follow-up sequence, right up until we getthat response and then from there, it
gets even further automated so that wecan nurture them again
and turn that conversation into afull-fledged client. And we can do this
all on behalf of the client without theclient needing to lift a finger, which is
magic. And that's the power of automation.It's essentially, like having a full
sales team or a full marketing team or afull appointment setting team or
whatever you need to do, working for you24/7 365 all the time without you
needing to do anything once that initialwork has been put in and the automation
is set up. But, even if you don't want toget that fancy with automation, it's
still a valuable thing to master and toincorporate into your business and you
can still use it to do some basic, butincredibly important things, such as
sending out automated email newslettersthat go out whenever somebody downloads
your guide or buys one of your products.Automated re-targeting and re-marketing advertisements that follow someonearound like a creepy stalker. Anytime
they visit your website, automatedcustomer management that follows up with
customers and makes them feel cared forand looked out for. Even if it's a robot
doing it. And, people like robots anyway.Even automated grocery shopping which
yes, is not marketing related but itstill saves me a ton of time. The point
is, that using technology andautomating repetitive and really often
boring processthis can save you a ton of time and make
you that much more effective andefficient and really getting the work
done that needs to be done so you canget back to doing those high leverage,
really valuable activities that aregoing to drive your business forward. Alright, the next thing you're going towant to do is check out the video I have
linked up right here on 20 digitalmarketing tactics which is going to give
you a ton more great ideas to reallydrive your marketing forward. So make
sure to check that out now. Thanks somuch for watching and I'll catch you
next time, on the Marketing Show. Pointsto consider when you're constructing an
irresistible offer is that you want tobe selling a painkiller....